README.md, before:

# NEAR App Boilerplate

Most of this repo is how to use React 17 with useContext and useReducer.

There is a helper in `src/utils/state` that handles a lot of this. You can follow the code as an example or read below to understand how it works.

## Installation

Beyond having npm and node (latest versions), you should have Rust installed. I recommend nightly because living on the edge is fun.

https://rustup.rs/

Also recommend installing near-cli globally

`npm i -g near-cli`

Everything else can be installed via:
`yarn`
`cd server && yarn`

## NEAR Config

There is only one config.js file found in `src/config.js`, this is also used for running tests.

Using `src/config.js` you can set up your different environments. Use `REACT_APP_ENV` to switch environments e.g. in `package.json` script `deploy`.

## Running Tests

You can run unit tests in the Rust contracts themselves, but it may be more useful to JS tests against testnet itself.

Note: to run the app and server tests make sure you install and start the server.
- cd server
- yarn && yarn start

Commands:
- `test` will simply run app tests against the contract already deployed. You can mess around with `app.test.js` and try different frontend stuff
- `test:deploy` - will deploy a new dev account (`/neardev`) and deploy a new contract to this account, then run `test`
- `test:server` - will test the server, make sure you start it (see "Note" above)
- `test:unit` - runs the rust unit tests

If you've changed your contract or your dev account has run out of funds use `test:deploy`, if you're updating your JS tests only then use `test`.

## Test Utils

There are helpers in `test/test-utils.js` that take care of:
1. creating a near connection and establishing a keystore for the dev account
2. creating test accounts each time a test is run
3. establishing a contract instance so you can call methods

You can change the default funding amount for test accounts in `src/config.js`

## Using the NEAR Config in your app

In `src/state/near.js` you will see that `src/config.js` is loaded as a function. This is to satisfy the jest/node test runner.

You can destructure any properies of the config easily in any module you import it in like this:

```
// example file app.js

import getConfig from '../config';
export const {
	GAS,
	networkId, nodeUrl, walletUrl, nameSuffix,
	contractName,
} = getConfig();
```
Note the export const in the destructuring?

Now you can import these like so:
```
//example file Component.js
import { GAS } from '../app.js'
...
await contract.withdraw({ amount: parseNearAmount('1') }, GAS)
...
```

# React 17, Parcel with useContext and useReducer
- Bundled with Parcel 2.0 (@next) && eslint
- *Minimal all-in-one state management with async/await support*

## Getting Started: State Store & useContext

>The following steps describe how to use `src/utils/state` to create and use your own `store` and `StateProvider`.

1. Create a file e.g. `/state/app.js` and add the following code
```js
import { State } from '../utils/state';

// example
const initialState = {
	app: {
		mounted: false
	}
};

export const { store, Provider } = State(initialState);
```
2. Now in your `index.js` wrap your `App` component with the `StateProvider`
```js
import { Provider } from './state/app';

ReactDOM.render(
    <Provider>
        <App />
    </Provider>,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```
3. Finally in `App.js` you can `useContext(store)`
```js
const { state, dispatch, update } = useContext(store);
```

## Usage in Components
### Print out state values
```js
<p>Hello {state.foo && state.foo.bar.hello}</p>
```
### Update state directly in component functions
```js
const handleClick = () => {
    update('clicked', !state.clicked);
};
```
### Dispatch a state update function (action listener)
```js
const onMount = () => {
    dispatch(onAppMount('world'));
};
useEffect(onMount, []);
```
## Dispatched Functions with context (update, getState, dispatch)

When a function is called using dispatch, it expects arguments passed in to the outer function and the inner function returned to be async with the following json args: `{ update, getState, dispatch }`

Example of a call:
```js
dispatch(onAppMount('world'));
```

All dispatched methods **and** update calls are async and can be awaited. It also doesn't matter what file/module the functions are in, since the json args provide all the context needed for updates to state.

For example:
```js
import { helloWorld } from './hello';

export const onAppMount = (message) => async ({ update, getState, dispatch }) => {
	update('app', { mounted: true });
	update('clicked', false);
	update('data', { mounted: true });
	await update('', { data: { mounted: false } });

	console.log('getState', getState());

	update('foo.bar', { hello: true });
	update('foo.bar', { hello: false, goodbye: true });
	update('foo', { bar: { hello: true, goodbye: false } });
	update('foo.bar.goodbye', true);

	await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(() => {
		console.log('getState', getState());
		resolve();
	}, 2000));

	dispatch(helloWorld(message));
};
```
## Prefixing store and Provider

The default names the `State` factory method returns are `store` and `Provider`. However, if you want multiple stores and provider contexts you can pass an additional `prefix` argument to disambiguate.

```js
export const { appStore, AppProvider } = State(initialState, 'app');
```

## Performance and memo

The updating of a single store, even several levels down, is quite quick. If you're worried about components re-rendering, use `memo`:
```js
import React, { memo } from 'react';

const HelloMessage = memo(({ message }) => {
	console.log('rendered message');
	return <p>Hello { message }</p>;
});

export default HelloMessage;
```
Higher up the component hierarchy you might have:
```js
const App = () => {
	const { state, dispatch, update } = useContext(appStore);
    ...
	const handleClick = () => {
		update('clicked', !state.clicked);
	};

	return (
		<div className="root">
			<HelloMessage message={state.foo && state.foo.bar.hello} />
			<p>clicked: {JSON.stringify(state.clicked)}</p>
			<button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</button>
		</div>
	);
};
```
When the button is clicked, the component HelloMessage will not re-render, it's value has been memoized (cached). Using this method you can easily prevent performance intensive state updates in further down components until they are neccessary.

Reference:
- https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
- https://dmitripavlutin.com/use-react-memo-wisely/

Commit message:

update for social drop video

README.md, after:

# Social Token Drop TEMPLATE

WARNING - this repo is incomplete

There are many things to do to make it an actual Social Token dropping app. It's a good place to start if you want to learn.

I will hopefully be making some updates to this and additionally releasing a version that works with a standard fungible token on NEAR protocol. Stay Tuned.

It's a companion to the video here:
[![Live App Review 2 - Social Token Drop](https://img.youtube.com/vi/IWHmG6WCiPA/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWHmG6WCiPA)

# NEAR App Boilerplate

Most of this repo is how to use React 17 with useContext and useReducer.

There is a helper in `src/utils/state` that handles a lot of this. You can follow the code as an example or read below to understand how it works.

## Installation

Beyond having npm and node (latest versions), you should have Rust installed. I recommend nightly because living on the edge is fun.

https://rustup.rs/

Also recommend installing near-cli globally

`npm i -g near-cli`

Everything else can be installed via:
`yarn`
`cd server && yarn`

## NEAR Config

There is only one config.js file found in `src/config.js`, this is also used for running tests.

Using `src/config.js` you can set up your different environments. Use `REACT_APP_ENV` to switch environments e.g. in `package.json` script `deploy`.

## Running Tests

You can run unit tests in the Rust contracts themselves, but it may be more useful to JS tests against testnet itself.

Note: to run the app and server tests make sure you install and start the server.
- cd server
- yarn && yarn start

Commands:
- `test` will simply run app tests against the contract already deployed. You can mess around with `app.test.js` and try different frontend stuff
- `test:deploy` - will deploy a new dev account (`/neardev`) and deploy a new contract to this account, then run `test`
- `test:server` - will test the server, make sure you start it (see "Note" above)
- `test:unit` - runs the rust unit tests

If you've changed your contract or your dev account has run out of funds use `test:deploy`, if you're updating your JS tests only then use `test`.

## Test Utils

There are helpers in `test/test-utils.js` that take care of:
1. creating a near connection and establishing a keystore for the dev account
2. creating test accounts each time a test is run
3. establishing a contract instance so you can call methods

You can change the default funding amount for test accounts in `src/config.js`

## Using the NEAR Config in your app

In `src/state/near.js` you will see that `src/config.js` is loaded as a function. This is to satisfy the jest/node test runner.

You can destructure any properies of the config easily in any module you import it in like this:

```
// example file app.js

import getConfig from '../config';
export const {
	GAS,
	networkId, nodeUrl, walletUrl, nameSuffix,
	contractName,
} = getConfig();
```
Note the export const in the destructuring?

Now you can import these like so:
```
//example file Component.js
import { GAS } from '../app.js'
...
await contract.withdraw({ amount: parseNearAmount('1') }, GAS)
...
```

# React 17, Parcel with useContext and useReducer
- Bundled with Parcel 2.0 (@next) && eslint
- *Minimal all-in-one state management with async/await support*

## Getting Started: State Store & useContext

>The following steps describe how to use `src/utils/state` to create and use your own `store` and `StateProvider`.

1. Create a file e.g. `/state/app.js` and add the following code
```js
import { State } from '../utils/state';

// example
const initialState = {
	app: {
		mounted: false
	}
};

export const { store, Provider } = State(initialState);
```
2. Now in your `index.js` wrap your `App` component with the `StateProvider`
```js
import { Provider } from './state/app';

ReactDOM.render(
    <Provider>
        <App />
    </Provider>,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```
3. Finally in `App.js` you can `useContext(store)`
```js
const { state, dispatch, update } = useContext(store);
```

## Usage in Components
### Print out state values
```js
<p>Hello {state.foo && state.foo.bar.hello}</p>
```
### Update state directly in component functions
```js
const handleClick = () => {
    update('clicked', !state.clicked);
};
```
### Dispatch a state update function (action listener)
```js
const onMount = () => {
    dispatch(onAppMount('world'));
};
useEffect(onMount, []);
```
## Dispatched Functions with context (update, getState, dispatch)

When a function is called using dispatch, it expects arguments passed in to the outer function and the inner function returned to be async with the following json args: `{ update, getState, dispatch }`

Example of a call:
```js
dispatch(onAppMount('world'));
```

All dispatched methods **and** update calls are async and can be awaited. It also doesn't matter what file/module the functions are in, since the json args provide all the context needed for updates to state.

For example:
```js
import { helloWorld } from './hello';

export const onAppMount = (message) => async ({ update, getState, dispatch }) => {
	update('app', { mounted: true });
	update('clicked', false);
	update('data', { mounted: true });
	await update('', { data: { mounted: false } });

	console.log('getState', getState());

	update('foo.bar', { hello: true });
	update('foo.bar', { hello: false, goodbye: true });
	update('foo', { bar: { hello: true, goodbye: false } });
	update('foo.bar.goodbye', true);

	await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(() => {
		console.log('getState', getState());
		resolve();
	}, 2000));

	dispatch(helloWorld(message));
};
```
## Prefixing store and Provider

The default names the `State` factory method returns are `store` and `Provider`. However, if you want multiple stores and provider contexts you can pass an additional `prefix` argument to disambiguate.

```js
export const { appStore, AppProvider } = State(initialState, 'app');
```

## Performance and memo

The updating of a single store, even several levels down, is quite quick. If you're worried about components re-rendering, use `memo`:
```js
import React, { memo } from 'react';

const HelloMessage = memo(({ message }) => {
	console.log('rendered message');
	return <p>Hello { message }</p>;
});

export default HelloMessage;
```
Higher up the component hierarchy you might have:
```js
const App = () => {
	const { state, dispatch, update } = useContext(appStore);
    ...
	const handleClick = () => {
		update('clicked', !state.clicked);
	};

	return (
		<div className="root">
			<HelloMessage message={state.foo && state.foo.bar.hello} />
			<p>clicked: {JSON.stringify(state.clicked)}</p>
			<button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</button>
		</div>
	);
};
```
When the button is clicked, the component HelloMessage will not re-render, it's value has been memoized (cached). Using this method you can easily prevent performance intensive state updates in further down components until they are neccessary.

Reference:
- https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
- https://dmitripavlutin.com/use-react-memo-wisely/
